8.1 Design the data structures for a generic deck of cards. Explain how you would
subclass the data structures to implement blackjack


8.2 Imagine you have a call center with three levels of employees: respondent,
manager, and director. An incoming telephone call must be first allocated to a
respondent who is free. If the respondent can't handle the call, he or she must
escalate the call to a manager. If the manager is not free or not able to handle it,
then the call should be escalated to a director. Design the classes and data structures
for this problem. Implement a method dispatchCall() which assigns a
call to the first available employee.
|
8.3 Design a musical jukebox using object-oriented principles.
 
8.4 Design a parking lot using object-oriented principles.
8.5 Design the data structures for an online book reader system

8.6 Implement a jigsaw puzzle. Design the data structures and explain an algorithm
to solve the puzzle. You can assume that you have a f itsWith method which,
when passed two puzzle pieces, returns true if the two pieces belong together. 


8.7 Explain how you would design a chat server. In particular, provide details about
the various backend components, classes, and methods. What would be the
hardest problems to solve?


8.8 Othello is played as follows: Each Othello piece is white on one side and black
on the other. When a piece is surrounded by its opponents on both the left and
right sides, or both the top and bottom, it is said to be captured and its color is
flipped. On your turn, you must capture at least one of your opponent's pieces.
The game ends when either user has no more valid moves. The win is assigned
to the person with the most pieces. Implement the object-oriented design for
Othello.


8.9 Explain the data structures and algorithms that you would use to design an
in-memory file system. Illustrate with an example in code where possible.

8.10 
Design and implement a hash table which uses chaining (linked lists) to handle
collisions.
Additional Questions: Threads and Locks (#16.3)


---------------------------
Elevator
design short url service

1. Program that lets people play tic tac toe with each other over the internet?               
2. A suitable data structure for a photo editor or text editor? Why?
3. Implementing code to operate the elevators?
4. Implementing the rendering engine of a web browser?


http://codetosalvation.wordpress.com/2013/10/08/design-interview-questions/
Design Interview Questions
Posted on October 8, 2013 by codetosalvationblog

Design and implement LRU cache
How do you set up a bounded Queue?

How to design a Column-oriented DBMS?
Design a scalable server for the hangman game. About security scaling session state etc.
 
Online system design for monitoring
Design data structure to implement T9 dictionary
Design and code a system that can accept millions of events in real time and report the number of events for the last 10 minutes (sliding window). The system has to account for performance and concurrency
Consider a B2C website like Amazon, which will receive thousands requests from buyer per minutes. How will you design the “shop cart ” component for it? where should the customs’ shop cart data stored?
How do you search through huge flatfile? 
General design question: Web site
Design a key value store
Implement a concurrent read-write buffer
How u would build a site providing url shortening service?
How do you design the reporting system for linkedin servers?
Implement a hashmap
How do we tune the applications servers in case of high load?
Top million word counts in a very large data set like web.
Explain about scalability for web applications
In a distributed system cluster set-up, you’ve exceptions on each and every machine. How would get TOP 10 exceptions in last 24 hr time window?
How would you design amazon.com?
Mobile backend system design
Security system design
Implement a hash table
Implement a web crawler
Design a system which takes in 1 million ids and processes the records

(1)
How would you design an enhancement to the LinkedIn homepage that displays 
24-hour trailing lists (5-minute, 1-hour, 1-day) of the top 5 URLs that 
users post onto the site?

(2)
How do you design the monitoring system for linkedin servers?
Design diagnostics system for linkedin    Answer Question 
How would you design the reporting system for linkedin servers?    Answer 
Question 

(3)
Design and code a system that can accept millions of events in real time and
report the number of events for the last 10 minutes (sliding window). The 
system has to account for performance and concurrency.    View Answer

(4)
Given a large number of records (with increasing but not necessarily 
consecutive sequence number), design a indexing scheme

http://pkghosh.wordpress.com/2010/10/19/recommendation-engine-powered-by-hadoop-part-1/
http://pkghosh.wordpress.com/2010/10/31/recommendation-engine-powered-by-hadoop-part-2/
http://www.slideshare.net/rashmi/design-of-recommender-systems
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1407841/how-to-create-my-own-recommendation-engine


https://github.com/johnsdea/JavaBoardGames/tree/master/src/BoardGames

